[automate-825] IAM v2 Overview Doc Updates (#1731)
chef/automate: components/automate-chef-io/content/docs/iam-v2-overview.md

Show the simplest possible experience that most users will experience. We are assuming that experience will be UI only, so present the UI information first followed by CLI information presented in reference format.
-->

This guide helps you understand and use the beta version of Chef Automate's new **Identity and Access Management** ([IAM](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Identity_management)) system (IAM v2.1).

IAM v2.1 is a beta release and its functionality is subject to change during this period, based on customer feedback.
This is an opt-in only feature during the beta period.
Chef Automate users will not be automatically upgraded.

We designed IAM v2.1 to leave your v1 policy data untouched during your upgrade to v2.1; however, you can choose to not port over v1 policies by using the provided `--skip-policy-migration` flag with the upgrade command.

Whether or not you migrate your v1 policies, if at any time you decide to opt back out of the beta and revert to v1, your original v1 policies will still be intact.
Reverting to v1, however, will remove any new v2.1 data created while using IAM v2.1 (policies, roles, projects, rules).

> Users, teams, and tokens are shared between v1 and v2.1 so changes to them will persist.

Reviewer: comma after 2.1?

This is an opt-in only feature during the beta period.
Chef Automate users will not be automatically upgraded.

We designed IAM v2 to leave your v1 policy data untouched during your upgrade to v2; however, you can choose to not port over v1 policies by using the provided `--skip-policy-migration` flag with the upgrade command.

Whether or not you migrate your v1 policies, if at any time you decide to opt back out of the beta and revert to v1, your original v1 policies will still be intact.

> Reverting to v1 will remove any new v2 data created while using IAM v2 (policies, roles, projects, rules).

Reviewer 2: in general, i think we should refer to `rules` as `project rules` to be more specific.

Reviewer 3: yes, agree!

> Reverting to v1, however, will remove any new v2 data created while using IAM v2 (policies, roles, projects, rules).

Reviewer 4: [nit] I'd drop the `however` here personally.

Users, teams, and tokens are shared between v1 and v2, so changes to them will persist.

See the [IAM v2 API Reference]({{< relref "iam-v2-api-reference.md" >}}) for day-to-day use of the IAM v2 system.

## New Features in IAM v2

> IAM v2 expands Chef Automate's authorization system by supporting policies to allow multiple permissions, separating out policy membership from policy definition for more fine-grained control, and adding roles to begin moving towards role-based access control.

Reviewer 2: This seems like a good spot to mention projects too

Additionally, IAM v2 improves the user experience by allowing policy members to be managed directly from the Automate UI.

At the heart of Chef Automate's IAM system is the *policy*.

> A policy defines permissions for who may perform what action on which resource.

Reviewer 2: maybe add `scoped by project`

- Mary is a member of the default viewers team, which allows read access to everything because of the default Viewers policy.
  Mary is also a member of the deployment team, which has permission to upload and download profiles.
  Net effect: Mary is granted both those permissions (effectively the union of relevant policies).

### Properties of a Policy

A v2 policy consists of a list of **statements**, where each statement describes a permission.

Property   | Description
-----------|------------
Statements | list of permissions

### Properties of a Statement

A policy statement must include one or more *actions*, which can be defined *inline* with the `Actions` property or *by reference* through a role definition, specified in the `Role` property.
Statements are typically composed using roles, but inline policy statements are useful for managing access to specific resources for special cases, or for when you don't want to create a named role for monolithic policies.

Property   | Description
-----------|-----------------------------
Actions    | list of operations, e.g., read IAM users, get compliance profiles, update node status, etc.

> Role       | a named set of actions

Reviewer 3: do we enforce this being a set? if not, maybe we should say list here?

A v2.1 role consists of a list of **actions**.
Roles are discussed in detail in [Basic Role-Based Access Control]({{< relref "iam-v2-overview.md#basic-role-based-access-control" >}}).

Property   | Description
-----------|-----------------------------
Actions    | list of operations the role manages, e.g., read IAM users, get compliance profiles, update node status, etc.

## Members and Policies

A **member**  (previously called a *subject* in v1) may be a user, a team, or a token.
Users and teams may be *local*, meaning they are defined within Chef Automate, or managed by an external identity provider, specifically LDAP or SAML.
In this so far, v2.1 and v1 behave the same.

What is new in v2.1 is that policy *membership* is separate and distinct from policy *definition*.
(Notice that members were **not** included as part of the [New Policy Definition]({{< relref "iam-v2-overview.md#new-policy-definition" >}})).
Notably, with IAM v2.1, you can modify policy membership for any policy,
but you can only adjust policy definition for policies that you create yourself.
[Policy Types]({{< relref "iam-v2-overview.md#policy-types" >}}) discusses this point further.

## Policy Types

> IAM v2.1 distinguishes two types of policies: *Chef-managed* and *custom*.

Reviewer 3: should custom be capitalized here?

*Chef-managed* policies are provided by Chef and are integral to the operation of Chef Automate. The policy statements (comprising the policy definition) in Chef-managed policies are immutable.
*Custom* policies are those you create for your own needs. You can add, edit, and delete policy statements in your custom policies.

You can modify the membership of either type of policy.
It is, however, not possible to remove the local Administrator from the Administrator policy.

## Basic Role-Based Access Control

> IAM v2.1 also introduces basic roles as our first step to delivering

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
IAM v2.1 also introduces roles as our first step to delivering
```

but you can only adjust policy definition for policies that you create yourself.
[Policy Types]({{< relref "iam-v2-overview.md#policy-types" >}}) discusses this point further.

## Policy Types

IAM v2 distinguishes two types of policies: *Chef-managed* and *Custom*.
*Chef-managed* policies are provided by Chef and are integral to the operation of Chef Automate. The policy statements (comprising the policy definition) in Chef-managed policies are immutable.
*Custom* policies are those you create for your own needs. You can add, edit, and delete policy statements in your custom policies.

You can modify the membership of either type of policy.
It is, however, not possible to remove the local Administrator from the Administrator policy.

## Basic Role-Based Access Control

> IAM v2 also introduces roles as our first step to delivering

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
IAM v2 also introduces roles to provide 
```

   *Every* statement must either indicate specific projects or specify the wildcard denoting all projects (`*`).
   By default, any previously existing policies are automatically setup with that wildcard so they apply to all projects.
3. Assign resources with projects (see [Assigning Resources to Projects]({{< relref "iam-v2-overview.md#assigning-resources-to-projects" >}})).
4. Select the projects to filter in the UI.
   Once you create some projects, use the **global project filter** in the top navigation bar to select one or more projects for viewing.
   With no selection (the default), you will see resources for *all* projects.

Note that out-of-the-box we provide a *project-owner* role so the global admin may delegate much of these responsibilities for project management to others, to alleviate some of the burden for the global admin.

### Properties of a Project

A v2 project consists of a list of **rules**, where each rule describes a group of node characteristics.

Property   | Description
-----------|------------
Rules      | list of project assignment rules

A rule consists of a list of **conditions**, where each condition describes a single characteristic.

> It also contains a type where <<TODO describe what node and event mean>>

Author: Need someone to fill in appropriate wording here.

Reviewer 3: node corresponds to client run nodes and compliance nodes
event corresponds to events on the event-feed page

i wouldnt use those words, but something like them

## Working with Projects

IAM projects are collections of resources created in Chef Automate or ingested from external data providers, including Chef Infra and Chef Inspec.
Projects are used in a policy to reduce the scope of permissions of that policy to just the resources assigned to the given projects.
Without a policy statement allowing an operation for a resource assigned to a given project, a user cannot perform the actions of that policy.

{{< info >}}
Note that Chef Automate is currently limited to six projects while we continue to refine the user experience during this beta period.
{{< /info >}}

There are four steps to setting up projects:

1. Define each project via the UI (or the command line if you prefer).
   Start on the projects list page shown previously to create your projects.
2. Create or modify IAM policy statements to restrict permissions to specific projects as needed.
   *Every* statement must either indicate specific projects or specify the wildcard denoting all projects (`*`).
   By default, any previously existing policies are automatically setup with that wildcard so they apply to all projects.

> 3. Assign resources with projects (see [Assigning Resources to Projects]({{< relref "iam-v2-overview.md#assigning-resources-to-projects" >}})).

Reviewer 4: [nit] Maybe `Assign resources to projects` instead of `with`?

4. Select the projects to filter in the UI.
   Once you create some projects, use the **global project filter** in the top navigation bar to select one or more projects for viewing.
   With no selection (the default), you will see resources for *all* projects.

Note that, by default, Automate includes a *project-owner* role so the global admin may delegate much of these responsibilities for project management to others, to alleviate some of the burden for the global admin.

### Properties of a Project

> A v2 project consists of a list of **rules**, where each rule describes a group of node characteristics.

Reviewer 4: This feels a bit misleading to me. Projects are used independent of their relation to rules as well.

Author: Good point! Revised accordingly.

> There are two broad categories of resources that may be assigned to projects: your set of nodes feeding data into Chef Automate and the set of IAM resources themselves.

Reviewer 2: Could be worth explicitly pointing out that not all Automate resources, such as node managers, can be assigned projects yet.

Reviewer 3: yes agree, we should be saying `ingested client-run and compliance nodes` instead of just `nodes`

Property   | Description
-----------|------------
Rules      | list of project assignment rules

A rule consists of a list of **conditions**, where each condition describes a single characteristic.
It also contains a type where <<TODO describe what node and event mean>>

Property   | Description
-----------|------------
Type       | one of (node, event)
Conditions | list of node characteristics

A condition consists of these properties:

Property               | Description
-----------------------|------------
Attribute (for events) | one of (CHEF_ORGANIZATION, CHEF_SERVER)
Attribute (for nodes)  | one of (CHEF_ORGANIZATION, CHEF_SERVER, ENVIRONMENT, CHEF_ROLE, CHEF_TAG, CHEF_POLICY_NAME, CHEF_POLICY_GROUP)
Operator               | one of (equals, member_of)
Values                 | list of one or more values to match on the specified attribute

### Assigning Resources to Projects

> There are two broad categories of resources that may be assigned to projects: your set of nodes feeding data into Chef Automate and the set of IAM resources themselves.

Reviewer 4: This is true for now, but long term there will likely be other objects which aren't ingested that also aren't IAM resources. AKA anything in postgres will long-term be tagged with projects without using rules. Fine with leaving as is for now though.

Reviewer 3: instead of _nodes feeding data into_ can we say _ingested nodes_?

Reviewer 3: and maybe _resources created in Automate_ for the other resources?

Any of these that you do not explicitly assign to a project (as described next) are considered *unassigned* with respect to projects.

> At the start, then, none of your resources are assigned to any projects.

Reviewer 4: [nit] I'd drop the `then` here personally.

> To assign a project to a set of nodes as mentioned above, the project needs a list of **rules**, where each rule describes a group of node characteristics.

Reviewer 2: let's add somewhere in this section that a project is not required to have rules if it's only for managing resources like teams or tokens.

By the way, that button at the bottom, **Add Member Expression**, is where you can add LDAP or SAML users and teams.

![](/images/docs/admin-policies-editors-add-members.png)

The role list page displays all your roles along with their types (*Chef-managed* or *Custom*).
Selecting a role from the list opens the role's details page, displaying the definition of the role.

![](/images/docs/admin-roles.png)

The project list page displays all your projects along with the status of associated rules (*No rules*, *Edits pending*, or *Applied*).
When you create or update rules, those changes are **not** directly applied.
Rather, they are staged so that you may coordinate a set of changes to be applied together at a time of your choosing.
In fact, other administrative users may also stage changes and you would see each other's changes when you refresh your view.
All changes will be applied together when you select the **Update Projects** button.

Selecting a project from the list opens the projects's details page, displaying the list of rules comprising that project.

> From there, you can select any individual rule to view its list of conditions,  then select a condition to view its details.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
From there, you can select any individual rule to view its list of conditions,  then select a condition to view or update its details.
```

Just add members to any of these default policies, as described later, to quickly get your basic users up and running.

## Working with Projects

> IAM projects are collections of resources created in Chef Automate or ingested from external data providers, including ChefInfra and ChefInspec.

Reviewer 3: have we made the move to referring to chef infra in the automate docs? also i think you need a space in those names

> Projects are used in a policy to reduce the scope of permissions of that policy to just the resources tagged with the given projects.

Reviewer 3: lets not use the word _tagged_ here if possible, theres not really that notion from the users perspective i dont think

Without a policy statement to allow an operation tagged with a given project, a user cannot perform the actions of that policy.

> Note that Chef Automate is currently limited to six projects while we continue to refine the user experience during this beta period.

Reviewer 3: this should prolly use the note short code

There are four steps to setting up projects:

1. Define each project via the UI (or the command line if you prefer).
   Start on the projects list page shown previously to create your projects.
2. Create or modify IAM policy statements to restrict permissions to specific projects as needed.
   *Every* statement must either indicate specific projects or specify the wildcard denoting all projects (`*`).
   By default, any previously existing policies are automatically setup with that wildcard so they apply to all projects.
3. Tag resources with projects (see [Tagging Resources]({{< relref "iam-v2-overview.md#tagging-resources" >}})).
4. Select the projects to filter in the UI.

>    Once you create some projects, use the **global project filter** in the penultimate position of the top navigation bar to select one or more projects for viewing.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   Once you create some projects, use the **global project filter** in the top navigation bar to select one or more projects for viewing.
```

>    With no selection (the default), you are thereby saying you want *no* filtering, hence displaying resources for *all* projects for which you have permission.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   With no selection (the default), all resources you have permission on will be displayed.
```

Reviewer 3: i dont think we need to explain what _no selection_ means in terms of filtering, instead just that no selection means you see all resources you have access to.. i think the addition of content makes it more difficult to understand

Note that out-of-the-box we provide a *project-owner* role so the global admin may delegate much of these responsibilities for project management to others, to alleviate some of the burden for the global admin.

### Properties of a Project

A v2.1 project consists of a list of **rules**, where each rule describes a group of node characteristics.

Property   | Description
-----------|------------
Rules      | list of tagging rules

A rule consists of a list of **conditions**, where each condition describes a single characteristic.
It also contains a type where <<TODO describe what node and event mean>>

Property   | Description
-----------|------------
Type       | one of (node, event)
Conditions | list of node characteristics

A condition consists of these properties:

Property   | Description
-----------|------------

> Attribute  | for **event** types: one of (CHEF_ORGANIZATION, CHEF_SERVER)

Reviewer 3: i think the first column should use _Event Attribute_ and _Node Attribute_ and just list the options in the description

Attribute  | for **node** types: one of (CHEF_ORGANIZATION, CHEF_SERVER, ENVIRONMENT, CHEF_ROLE, CHEF_TAG, CHEF_POLICY_NAME, CHEF_POLICY_GROUP)
Operator   | one of (equals, member_of)
Values     | list of one or more values to match on the specified attribute

### Tagging Resources

There are two broad categories of resources that may be tagged: your set of nodes feeding data into Chef Automate and the set of IAM resources themselves.
Any of these that you do not explicitly tag (as described next) are considered *unassigned* with respect to projects.

> We denote this group of unassigned projects as being in the `(unassigned)` project, including the parentheses as a way to connote that it is a special designator.

Reviewer 3: users will not have the same understanding of _(unassigned)_ as we do, since it will not show up in the projects list. so please, can we not refere to it as the unassigned project, it is instead just resources that have not been assigned to a project. happy to talk more about this when im back if youd like to understand more of my reasoning.

At the start, then, all of your resources are not tagged with any projects and thus can be viewed by selecting either `All Projects` or just the `(unassigned)` project in the global project filter.

Taggable IAM resources include teams, tokens, policies, and roles. Teams and tokens may be tagged with projects directly in the UI; policies and roles still can only be tagged on the command-line (since you cannot create or modify those at all in the UI yet).

Tagging your set of nodes is done via the rules you create for the project, mentioned just briefly above.
A rule specifies one or more conditions, and each condition specifies a set of attribute values that a node must satisfy to be tagged with the given project.
Once you define your set of projects with their contained rules and conditions, you then use the **Update Projects** button on the main projects list page to apply those definitions to all your nodes.

## Policies, Roles, and Projects in the UI

> IAM v2.1 introduces partial policy management from within Chef Automate in your browser.

Reviewer 3: whats this partial about? can we just say you can manage members from the ui, instead of indicating its not complete or something because the editing of a policy from the ui will not happen until after ga.

> Chef Automate's **Settings** tab has a new *Access Management* heading on the left panel, with new pages for *Policies*, *Roles*, and *Projects*.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Chef Automate's **Settings** tab has a new *Access Management* heading in the left panel, with new pages for *Policies*, *Roles*, and *Projects*.
```
